=encoding utf8
=head1 NAME

tpfancod - Controls the fan speed of IBM/Lenovo ThinkPad-Notebooks.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

tpfancod [B<--quiet>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<tpfancod> controls the system fan of ThinkPad notebooks based on specified temperature profiles. Seperate trigger points can be configured for every temperature sensor in the notebook.

=over 8

=item B<--quiet>

Supresses startup messages

=back

=head1 CONFIGURATION

B<tpfancod> can either be configured interactively by running B<tpfanco-admin> or by modifying B</etc/tpfancod.conf>. After manually changing the configuration file the daemon must be restarted for the new configuration to take effect.

You can specify the following options in B</etc/tpfancod.conf>:

=over 8

=item B<enabled> = I<True / False>

If I<True> the system fan is controlled by B<tpfancod>, otherwise by the embedded hardware controller.

=item B<override_profile> = I<True / False>

If I<True> fan trigger temperatures and the options B<hysteresis>, B<interval_speed>, B<interval_duration> and B<interval_delay> are read from the config file, otherwise from the profile matching your notebook stored in B</usr/share/tpfancod/models>.
This option must be I<True> if you want to manually specify trigger temperatures.

=item B<hysteresis> = I<integer> (K)

Specifies the hysteresis in K.

=item B<interval_speed> = I<integer> (1-7)

Specifies the fan speed in interval cooling mode. Value must be between 1 (slowest) and 7 (fastest). Usually this should be set to 1.

=item B<interval_duration> = I<integer> (msec)

Specifies the time in msec the fan may be running in interval cooling mode.

=item B<interval_delay> = I<integer> (msec)

Specifies the minimum time in msec the fan must be off after running in interval colling mode.

=item B<Fan trigger temperature>

B<Syntax:> [sensor id]. [sensor name] = [T1]:[F1] [T2]:[F2] ...

where

B<sensor id> is the id of the sensor (0-15).

B<sensor name> is a human readable sensor name, that will be shown by B<tpfanco-admin>.

B<Tn> is a temperature in °C.

B<Fn> is the fan level the system fan should run at when the temperature of this sensor rises about B<Tn>. 0 is off, 1 is interval cooling mode, 2-8 are fan speeds.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Please report bugs at https://github.com/tpfanco/tpfancod/issues

=head1 AUTHORS

B<tpfancod> was written by Vladyslav Shtabovenko <dev@vshtabov.df-kunde.de> and Sebastian Urban <surban84@googlemail.com> and is released under the GNU General Public License, version 3 or later.

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<tpfanco-admin>(1)

=cut

